it's a good time of year to start
thinking about your summer hanging
baskets so I thought I'd show you how we
make our hanging baskets here on the
nursery what you're gonna need is a wire
basket some hanging basket
lining material some compost as a good
growing medium and to move to cuttings
we've got I believe pelagonia mutant
cuttings we can put in our hanging
baskets today so the first thing you're
going to do is make sure you've got
enough hanging basket material so place
it over the top of your hanging basket
and just gently push it down
and you need to make sure there's enough
material coming there covering the edges
so it should look a little bit like that
okay so now you've got your hanging
basket material in the basket what we
need to do is to add the compost I use a
nice coarse gray compost here on the
nursery I like it to have lots of lumps
in it so it holds the air and it aids
drainage and what we're doing is we're
just fitting the basket that we're not
pushing down we're not actually putting
any pressure on the basket because
that's gonna come naturally when we
water the cuttings in so you need to
have your basket full but you don't want
to compost going over the edge of the
pot so there's your basket ready we're
using ivy leaf pelagonians this
afternoon for a hanging basket and this
varieties called Africa it's got this
beautiful variegated leaf and there's
very pretty simple single flower what
you need to do is to take your flowers
off and to do that you just need to pull
the flower stem back gently and you're
here it comes thick and off comes the
flower we've got nine little plants to
pot up we're gonna spread them evenly
around the edge we'll probably get about
seven around the edge and then two in
the middle pop them up all you need to
do is to get two fingers make a hole in
your compost close to the edge and put
the root ball in okay we're not doing
any firming down we're literally just
letting the plant settle down into the
compost so two fingers and then they go
I've already taken the other flowers off
this if there's any buds
you can take those off as well because
you want the plant to grow rather than
flower
for the moment so that's just two
fingers and then it goes so just work
round the edge trying to space them
evenly okay there we go
I've actually only made one two three
four five I've made six so what I'll do
is I'll put three in the middle okay so
all we need to do is just roughly do a
triangle and that will fill the pot
nicely so again it's just two fingers
and we're just putting them in and we're
not doing any pushing down we're just
literally popping them in and the last
one goes in there so we've got a nice
full basket but there's plenty of room
for it to grow all you need to do now is
give it a good watering in the watering
in will help settle the plants settle
the compost and encourage those roots to
grow out once you've given it a good
watering in then you can take your
scissors and you can cut the hanging
basket material to the edge of the part
you don't do this beforehand you always
do this after you've watered because the
weight of the compost and the water will
pull that hanging basket material down a
bit and what you don't want is any gaps
so there's your hanging basket ready to
go